.\" Copyright (C) 2015 Ipsilon Project Contributors
.\"
.TH "ipsilon-server-install" "1" "1.0.0" "Ipsilon" "Ipsilon Manual Pages"
.SH "NAME"
ipsilon\-server\-install \- Configure an Ipsilon Identity Provider instance
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
ipsilon\-server\-install [OPTION]...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Configure an Ipsilon instance to provide identity services using any of the supported and enabled protocols.

Ipsilon uses a plugable framework so some options may not be available, depending on what plugins have been installed.

Ipsilon supports three types of plugins:

1. Authentication provider plugins \- implements an authentication protocol such as SAML 2, OpenID or Persona. At least one needs to be enabled.
.br
2. Login plugins \- mechanisms for authenticating including GSSAPI, LDAP, PAM, etc. At least one should be enabled.
.br
3. Info plugins \- sources where additional attributes of the user may be obtained.
.br

There are also environment helper options which aid in configuring the Identity Provider for a particular environment, such as a FreeIPA domain.

The installation details are logged to /var/log/ipsilon\-install.log.
.SH "DATABASES"
Ipsilon stores configuration and session information in database tables. By default, a set of sqlite databases are used. If a full RDBMS is desired then the \fB\-\-database\-url\fR and/or \fB*\-dburi\fR options can be used to provide the database URIs. This should probably be used in load\-balanced situations so all servers can use the same database.

An example of a specific URI is
.br
\-\-users_dburi=postgresql://@dbserver.example.com:45432/users

The templatized version would be
.br
\-\-database\-url=postgresql://@dbserver.example.com:45432/%(dbname)s
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS BASIC OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show this help message and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show program's version number and exit
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fILM_ORDER\fR, \fB\-\-login\-managers\-order\fR \fILM_ORDER\fR
Comma separated list of login managers
.TP
\fB\-\-hostname\fR \fIHOSTNAME\fR
The hostname used by clients to reach this instance. This is used to determine the URLs provided in SAML metadata
.TP
\fB\-\-instance\fR \fIINSTANCE\fR
Ipsilon instance name
.TP
\fB\-\-system\-user\fR \fISYSTEM_USER\fI
User account used to run the server
.TP
\fB\-\-admin\-user\fR \fIADMIN_USER\fR
User account that is assigned Ipsilon admin privileges
.TP
\fB\-\-database\-url\fR \fIDATABASE_URL\fR
The (templatized) database URL to use
.TP
\fB\-\-secure\fR
Boolean to turn on all security checks
.TP
\fB\-\-server\-debugging\fR
Enable debugging
.TP
\fB\-\-uninstall\fR
Uninstall the server and all data
.TP
\fB\-\-yes\fR
Always answer yes
.TP
\fB\-\-admin\-dburi\fR \fIADMIN_DBURI\fR
Configuration database URI (override template)
.TP
\fB\-\-users\-dburi \fIUSERS_DBURI\fR
User configuration database URI (override template)
.TP
\fB\-\-transaction\-dburi\fR \fITRANSACTION_DBURI\fR
Transaction database URI (override template)
.SS AUTHENTICATION PROVIDER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-openid\fR
Configure OpenID Provider
.TP
\fB\-\-openid\-dburi\fR \fIOPENID_DBURI\fR
OpenID database URI (override template)
.TP
\fB\-\-persona\fR
Configure Persona Provider
.TP
\fB\-\-saml2\fR
Configure SAML2 Provider
.TP
\fB\-\-saml2\-metadata\-validity\fR \fISAML2_METADATA_VALIDITY\fR
Metadata validity period in days (default \- 1825)

.SS LOGIN MANAGER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-form\fR
Configure External Form authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-form\-service\fR \fIFORM_SERVICE\fR
PAM service name to use for authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-fas\fR
Configure FAS (Fedora Authentication System) authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-ldap\fR
Configure LDAP authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-ldap\-server\-url\fR \fILDAP_SERVER_URL\fR
LDAP Server Url
.TP
\fB\-\-ldap\-bind\-dn\-template\fR \fILDAP_BIND_DN_TEMPLATE\fR
LDAP Bind DN Template
.TP
\fB\-\-ldap\-tls\-level\fR \fILDAP_TLS_LEVEL\fR
LDAP TLS level
.TP
\fB\-\-ldap\-base\-dn\fR \fILDAP_BASE_DN\fR
LDAP Base DN
.TP
\fB\-\-krb\fR
Configure Kerberos authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-krb\-httpd\-keytab\fR \fIKRB_HTTPD_KEYTAB\fR
Kerberos keytab location for HTTPD
.TP
\fB\-\-pam\fR
Configure PAM authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-pam\-service\fR \fIPAM_SERVICE\fR
PAM service name to use for authentication
.TP
\fB\-\-testauth\fR
Configure testing environment authentication

.SS INFO PROVIDER OPTIONS
\fB\-\-info\-ldap\fR
Use LDAP to populate user attrs
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-ldap\-server\-url\fR \fIINFO_LDAP_SERVER_URL\fR
LDAP Server Url
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-ldap\-bind\-dn\fR \fIINFO_LDAP_BIND_DN\fR
LDAP Bind DN
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-ldap\-bind\-pwd\fR \fIINFO_LDAP_BIND_PWD\fR
LDAP Bind Password
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-ldap\-user\-dn\-template\fR \fIINFO_LDAP_USER_DN_TEMPLATE\fR
LDAP User DN Template
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-ldap\-base\-dn\fR \fIINFO_LDAP_BASE_DN\fR
LDAP Base DN
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-nss\fR
Use passwd data to populate user attrs
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-sssd\fR \fI
Use mod_lookup_identity and SSSD to populate user attrs. SSSD must be pre\-configured for at least one domain.
.TP
\fB\-\-info\-sssd\-domain\fR \fIINFO_SSSD_DOMAIN\fR
SSSD domain to enable mod_lookup_identity for (default is all)

.SS ENVIRONMENT HELPER OPTIONS
\fB\-\-ipa\fR
Helper for IPA joined machines. This configures Ipsilon for Kerberos authentication.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
0 if the installation was successful

1 if an error occurred
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ipsilon(7),
.BR ipsilon\-client\-install(1)
